---
title: VidBits and Gather Apps
lead: Learning Test-Driven Development.
category: personal
abstract: Projects for Codecademy Test-Driven Development Intensive.
tags: Node, Express, Webdriver, Chai, Mocha, Handlebars
---

##### Inspiration

The first time I heard about testing, I was shocked and felt betrayed that no one and told me about it. Then I walked around for a long time guilty about not testing, not quite sure how to go about learning it. The problem is that either someone needs to tell you that you have to do it, or you just have to make a commitment that you're going to do it anyway. So, when I heard about Codecademy's Test Driven Development intensive, I enrolled right away.

##### What It Does

Gather, the first project, is a simple CRUD app that allows you to post pictures by submitting a link, title, and description.

VidBits, the final project, is basically the same concept but with videos.

##### How I Built It

Both are Express apps with a Mongo backend and Handlebars for templating.

I used the course starter files which had Chai for assertions, Mocha as the test runner, and Webdriver for feature-testing.

The projects were partially guided, so I just followed the step-by-step instructions and referred to previous examples to try to implement each step. I followed the outside-in approach, first writing behavior-driven feature tests and working my way down the stack.

The biggest challenges and lessons learned arose from the nuances of writing assertions and the Mongoose API.

**Link**: [https://github.com/philgrayphilgray/tdd-vidbits](https://github.com/philgrayphilgray/tdd-vidbits)

**Link**: [https://github.com/philgrayphilgray/tdd-gather-app](https://github.com/philgrayphilgray/tdd-gather-app)
